# My story

I graduated from UIUC in May 2023 with a degree in computer science at 19 years old, in two years, with my second year studying abroad at École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) in Lausanne, Switzerland. Now if anyone is curious about what I took, here are my course schedules with the corresponding: 

GR denotes graduate section of class for graduate credit. GR* is graduate credit taken at EPFL. ECTS refers to the European Credit Transfer & Accumulation System. 

Fall 2021:
| Course Code | Course Name | UIUC Credit Hours|
| --------------------- | ----------- | ------------|
| CS 128 | Intro to CS II | 3 |
| CS 357 | Numerical Methods | 3 | 
| CS 361 | Prob & Stat for CS | 3 | 
| CI 437 | Education Game Design | 3 |
| TE 450 | Startups: Incorporation, Funding, Contracts, & Intellectual Property | 3 |
| REL 110 | World Religions | 3 |
| **Total** | | **18** |

Spring 2022:
| Course Code | Course Name | UIUC Credit Hours|
| --------------------- | ----------- | ------------|
| CS 233 | Computer Architecture | 4 |
| CS 374 | Intro to Algorithms | 4 | 
| CS 498 GD | Game Development | 4GR | 
| CS 222 | Education Game Design | 1 |
| ECE 316 | Engineering Ethics & Professionalism | 3 |
| ACE 240 | Personal Finance | 3 |
| LAS 291 | Study Abroad Orientation | 1 |
| MUS 169 | Allen Hall Music: Roots of Popular Music | 2 |
| **Total** | | **22 (4GR)** |

Summer 2022:
| Course Code | Course Name | UIUC Credit Hours|
| --------------------- | ----------- | ------------|
| CS 411 | Database Systems | 3GR |
| CS 421 | Programming Language & Compilers | 3GR | 
| **Total** | | **6 (6GR)** |

Fall 2022: this was my semester abroad, and my last semester taking courses. UIUC equivalent course code will be provided. 

*CS 4-- means equivalent to a CS 400-level course, but not articulated as any particular 400-level course. 

| EPFL Course Code | Course Name | EPFL ECTS | Equiv UIUC Course Code | UIUC Credit Hours | 
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------| ------------|
| CS-323 | Operating Systems | 5 | CS 341 | 3 |
| CS-423 | Distributed Information Systems | 4 | CS 423 | 2GR* |
| CS-430 | Intelligent Agents | 6 | CS 4--* | 3GR* |
| CS-431 | Natural Language Processing | 4 | CS 447 | 2GR* |
| CS-433 | Machine Learning | 8 | CS 446 | 4GR* |
| **Total** | | **27** | | **14 (11GR\*)** |

No classes in Spring 2023, graduating after credits have been processed by study abroad / admissions office and CS department. 

# On performing well in classes
I took heavy courseloads. My courseloads are not for everyone. They are great for students who are ambitious to graduate early (which aside from saying you did it, doesn't actually give much otherwise) and/or are hawks on saving money/tuition. I was a bit of the former, and very much the latter. 

At UIUC, the general rule of thumb is to NOT take more than 3 technical classes. This doesn't apply as much if you're studying abroad. You will hear that from people on Discord and Reddit. You can take 4 if you don't take any other classes. 

CS classes are generally *not* structured poorly. When you're spending time on your courses, your time is spent on actually doing the work, instead of fishing around for information to get through the course. Even courses that receive more criticism in CS (also dependant on the professor) usually do not feature *horror stories* of introductory math (calculus) and physics classes that brutalize engineering students en masse. 

A lot of the times, I pulled my laptop out to work on something when I am waiting for someone. I do homework in waiting for an advisor, waiting at train station / airport, or waiting to go to a friend's place. I would open PrairieLearn, to finish homework and if I need/want to, extra credit. If not, I might go on Google Drive and start typing away at a paper. 

I *enjoy* classes that I can speedrun through. These classes are usually general education (GenEd) requirements where the professor release all modules at once, so I can get them done and not think about the course again. 

If you don't go to lecture, find the recorded lecture for the section, and if not for that section, find the recorded lecture in the past year. I often skip lecture and watch them later on 2-3x speed. On a content / learning perspective, it's not really different. You understand the material or you don't. The downside, though, is you don't get to network with people in your class.

# On Studying Abroad
I probably will make another reflection post just on study abroad alone. 

Do it. Especially if you want to learn another language. It is way cheaper than hiring a private tutor especially in the United States. While on study abroad, I can say *j\'ai attendu la confidence à parler du français avec tout le monde.* This means I have attained the confidence to speak French with everyone. Even though I went studying abroad right as the hiring market turned *bad* for CS students, incurring a massive short-term career opportunity cost right then and there, the number of unique, wonderful experiences alone make it worth it. 

So what are these experiences? I fondly remember...

- Hiking in the mountains by myself on a $25 round trip train ticket in the Swiss Berner Oberland
- Skiing for the first time on the Swiss alps on my 19th birthday in Zinal-Grimentz, Valais, Switzerland
- Wander around Christmas night markets with Erasmus exchange friends in Basel and in Zurich
- Meeting the friendliest, kindest, most helpful people I've ever met in my life in Ticino, Switzerland
- Getting gelato twice in an hour with friends in Lake Como, Italy
- Making last minute plans to visit Napoli after visiting Pompeii in Southern Italy
- Party in a ruin bar and then relaxing for an afternoon in thermal spring baths in Budapest, Hungary
- Getting Doner Kebab at midnight in Vienna
- Playing *La campanella* on a piano in a bar in Bratislava, Slovakia
- Seeing a stone carving of *Last Supper* in the cathedral of Wieliczka Salt Mine near Krakow, Poland
- Dining by myself in a restaurant the hostel owner recommended me in Strasbourg, France
- Sneaking into a windmill near Amsterdam
- *...and many, many more memories*


Out of the people that I know that have went studying abroad, none regretted their decision. I have had a couple of tough, lonely months adjusting, probably because it's Switzerland as well, but what I learned about the world and the wonderful memories I made on Erasmus Student Network (ESN) events made it all very, very much worth it. At reputable European universities such as EPFL, ETH Zurich, TU Delft, Sorbonne... you will very much find diverse student bodies with student from all over the world. I made friends from Latin America, Middle East, East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia, and of course, from all over Europe and from Switzerland itself.

If something else motivates you to study abroad: it's probably cheaper than one semester at UIUC, even when you factor in the travel. If you don't believe me, just look at the expense sheets for study abroad. I also applied for a study abroad scholarship just as I left, which involved answering some questions and submitting the appliction. I was awarded $750, which I am quite grateful for that it covered my round-trip airfare to and from Paris where I can take the French high speed rail (TGV Lyria) directly to Lausanne. 

Travelling, talking to people, will open your eye and help you form your worldview. Your worldview will shape your life, in your career, family, and other important personal decisions. When you travel around, you will learn to "figure things out" and have the confidence to be independent. It will very much train you on interpersonal skills, or what we call "soft skills", especially on communicating and talking to people. Understanding the nuances when you visited different places

To go studying abroad as a CS student, talk to International Programs in Engineering on the third floor of DCL. 

# On Mental Health 

I think that my mental health throughout undergrad was good. I have met many talented people in CS, and they also take care of their mental and physical health. There were times when I struggled, and it's usually not related to classwork - like everybody else in college, I have had my awkward times and social *faux pas*. When I had my rows with academics, it was CS 128. CS 128 was a difficult class with a high workload, but it really honed in my programming skills. 

I owe a lot to the great friends that I have met everywhere. At UIUC, I met friends from my dorm (Allen Hall), at ACM by talking to people, and throughout campus by joining Registered Student Organizations (RSOs). In freshman year I was involved in Virtual Reality club and Illinois Model United Nations. 

I kept myself busy. I was really only back at my room to sleep as most of my studying was in a study room, library space, perhaps with friends around me as well. My academic course load definitely kept me busy - I studied a good many hours a day - but I didn't feel it was too much for me. I played piano for 1-2 hours a day, usually in the evening. I went to Krannert classical music concerts with good friends. Including lecture time, I think I studied 4-6 hours a day. Every month, I played piano at the Allen Hall *Coffeehouse*, a dorm-wide event of performing arts exhibition. I played classical piano, blindfolded. 

I didn't go to the gym in freshman year (now I do), as I just kept myself active by riding my bike and walking around campus. 

For those that can afford it, spend money on experiences that you value. Go text a friend that you want to go visit a restaurant with him/her, grab boba or dessert together, and go sign up for that on- or off-campus event you've been thinking about. Your excuse to your parents is that *it's cheaper than therapy* (okay, if you need it, don't skip therapy sessions). Dorm food, let's be honest, leave a good bit to be desired. 

If you want to make a friend in just a few minutes somewhere, say hello, be friendly, and say something genuinely nice. If you enjoy that person's company, then keep talking and sharing details about your lives.

When you have time, volunteer it. Tutor someone, offer to teach them content that you know. You'll remember it better - see Feynman technique - and you also get to deepen your interpersonal bonds this way. It's a mutually enriching experience. 

Oh yeah, take your naps, that keeps me nice and productive in the evening as well :)

# On finding a purpose

Oh, God. That's a very, very difficult question to answer. 

The thought of grinding the chase towards an internship/full time ladder for a high-paying, "secure" CS job - let's just say, it wasn't very appealing. To the many people who want a stable job to look after their families, perhaps this is what they wanted, and I don't judge them. 

Billions of people around the world don't have jobs that pay close to as well as what UIUC CS majors make right out of school - just think about the immigrant children who are the CS students' families back home - and to attend and graduate from U of I should be a point of gratitude for every student. 

