
# How study abroad is different

Study abroad actually shows you how lenient the American education system is. You get plenty of second chances, opportunities for you to get on the "good side" of faculty and work something out for everyone involved - you, your professor, class TAs, and administration on CS side, your college (for CS, engineering; for CS+X majors, LAS/ACES), and college-wide. 

Grading varies from European countries. In Switzerland it is 1-6, 4 being a pass (5 for PhD students). Maybe you can think of it as 6-1 on a A-F scale. However, there are a few themes that are common across European universities (at least for you, as an exchange student): 

- Passing (4 at EPFL) is not easy, but isn't fiendishly difficult. The fail rate for classes at second year and above, the courses you will take for your exchange, is capped at 10-15% at most, most likely 0-5%. For first year it would be a lot harder - since it is the filter year to find cream of the crop students.  
- Getting a good grade (5 and above at EPFL) requires you to spend time deeply understanding the material. 5.5 is considered a *great* grade. 
- Top grade (EPFL 5.75) is assigned to the top 1-3% of students, while perfect grade (EPFL 6) is only given to the very best 1-2 students. 

In Europe, the focus is on the exam at the end of the semester. That exam can compose anywhere between 50-100% of your grade. If you're wondering what grades I got, these are my grades:

| EPFL Course Code | Course Name | Grade | 
| --------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | 
| CS-323 | Operating Systems | 5.25 |
| CS-423 | Distributed Information Systems | 5.25
| CS-430 | Intelligent Agents | 5.5
| CS-431 | Natural Language Processing | 4.75
| CS-433 | Machine Learning | 5.5

Toxicity manifests differently. European universities are known for grading on a curve and pitting students against each other. Your goal is not to score perfectly, but to beat the kid sitting next to you (or rather, be on the right side of the Gaussian distribution). The good part is there isn't a pressure to be perfect. As an exchange student taking masters level courses, there is some pressure to do well, but not an extreme amount.

You're sheltered from the first year classes and students, where only 35-40% of EPFL students pass onto second year *on the first attempt*. The rest would have to re-attempt first year, sometimes through the notorious *mise à niveau* purgatory where many of my friends have ended up in. Most pass on second attempt, but a good few still fail. 

> You know that you probably should do the ungraded exercises that were assigned four weeks ago, but you would rather play chess or snack on Swiss chocolate with your friends that night. 

That's how I got the only course I got below a 5 on at EPFL: Natural Language Processing. 

# On Travelling
I very much encourage you to travel. You are only going to study abroad once in your life, maybe twice at the very, very most. It's your call and freedom to explore. 

Here are some tips (mostly applicable to Europe):

- Get a credit card with no foreign transaction fees nor exchange rate fees. Capital Savor One is a good choice that still gives you cash back. Costco credit card is good as well. 

- Withdraw from ATM as little as possible. Avoid airport and EuroNet ATMs which give you horrible rates. Draw from ATM only to pay tips. Unlike Latin America, you only pay cash to street vendors and most establishments can be paid by card. 

- Explore extensively throughout your exchange country. Especially with the local Erasmus Student Network (ESN). You don't have to fly to a different European capital every weekend. Day trips are also *very* fun and would allow you to appreciate the diversity and the culture of your host country. 

- Please, please don't be like the typical American student that goes to Europe and travels by Ryanair, WizzAir or EasyJet. Learn to take trains. It allows you to bring luggage onboard and you don't have to go through the unenjoyable commute and wait to get to an airport. If you're in France, Italy, Switzerland, Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Spain, you don't have many reasons to not travel by rail. Which brings me to the next point: 

- For budget travel, please don't uber or use taxis. Take public transportation from the airport or train station, via bus or train, it's not that long and it probably takes you quicker than car during rush hour. Prices are fixed and transparent. You also don't have to deal with haggling, which is a *very* annoying thing to anyone that has dealt with that. 

- Get to know the different train operators across different countries in Europe. Download their apps, buy the tickets directly from them. It allows you to appreciate more of a country. 

- If you need to book plane or train tickets, book them in advance. They are *painfully* expensive last minute. For trains, try to aim 1-2 weeks in advance. For plane tickets, 1-2 months in advance. Yes, you should have that conversation with your exchange friends on where you want to visit and plan out early. 

- Get a train pass. When I was in Lausanne I got both the Half-Fare Card and the Seven25 subscription. They pay for themselves *quickly* especially if you travel a lot. Seven25 allowed me to travel for free on Swiss public transportation network - by train, tram, bus, boat, and in some cases furnicular. 

- Also, please, please don't try to board public transportation without a ticket. You will give us a bad rep abroad, and you're stealing from the resources that make the public transporation possible in the first place. Especially in Switzerland, ticket controllers crack down *tightly* on fare evasion. And they are right to do that. 

- Stay in hostels. You will find like-minded friends in hostels, and they are far cheaper than hotels. They also don't displace local residents, unlike AirBNB, which often screws you over, big-time. 

This was my budget for much of Europe. If you drink alcohol, you might need to add $5-10 a day: 

? denotes countries I have not visited and am basing off of Numbeo

- Expensive countries: Switzerland, Benelux region (Luxembourg, Belgium and Netherlands), UK, Norway, Ireland, Iceland?: $100 a day. Prices are similar, perhaps a little cheaper, than expensive American cities like NYC/SF. 
- Standard countries: France, Spain, Italy, Portugal?, Austria, Germany, Czech Republic, Scandinavia except Norway: $70 a day
- Cheaper countries: Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Baltic states? (Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia), Balkan countries (Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia), Turkey?

These include transportation, food, lodging, and activities. 

