CS 173 is tricky for students who haven't taken it. I'll talk about how I taken the proficiency exam out of the class, and what advice I would give to students. 

# My journey to proficiency 173

I watched the lecture videos by Ian Ludden, [Section A from Summer 2020](https://courses.engr.illinois.edu/cs173/su2020/schedule.html), and as I found him a good, concise lecturer. I have heard good things about Professor Margaret Fleck's past lecture videos as well.  

I watched his video on 2x-3x speed, and spending a few hours every day, I watched all 24 lecture videos in 7-10 days. Then I spent a few more days doing examlets from past years, and I was prepared for the CS 173 proficiency exam. But I also came from a competition math background, so I already had a good amount of knowledge in discrete math - especially the language of formal definitions. For the average student, I would suppose this process would take a bit longer time, but if you're motivated and ambitious, then I encourage you to take the leap of faith of taking the proficiency exam. 

# I am a student in CS 173. What should I do? 

Here are some things that you would find very useful. 

1. Know the structure of an induction proof, inside-out. It consists of:
- Problem statement
- Base Case(s)
- Inductive Hypothesis (IH)
| Identify the "type" that you're applying IH on. Is it real numbers or integers below *n*, or nodes below tree height *h*?
- Inductive Step
- Concluding statement that restates you've proven the problem statement. 

2. Take notes on writing proofs in the formal mathematical language. But try to write concise, to the point statements, instead of verbose proofs. Your grader should be able to follow your logic, but reason out the explanation between statements. 

3. Do lots of past examlets. They are a treasure trove. They help you identify places where you have gaps of understanding. It's just like Test-Driven Development in software engineering: identify places where work is needed, repair them, and then move on. 